.\" Copyright (c) 2020  Peter Pentchev <roam@ringlet.net>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
.\"
.\"  1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
.\"     this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\"  2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
.\"     this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
.\"     and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS"
.\" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
.\" POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd May 31, 2020
.Dt ZCK 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm zck
.Nd compress a file using the zchunk format
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl D Ar file | Fl -dict Ns = Ns Ar file
.Op Fl m Ar chunk | Fl -manual Ns = Ns Ar chunk
.Op Fl o Ar file | Fl -output Ns = Ns Ar file
.Op Fl s Ar string | Fl -split Ns = Ns Ar string
.Op Fl v | Fl -verbose
.Ar file
.Nm
.Fl ? | Fl -help | Fl -usage | Fl -version
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility creates a new zchunk file from the data in the specified input file.
.Pp
.Em NOTE:
If no output file is specified using the
.Fl o
option, the
.Nm
utility will place the new file with the
.Pa .zck
extension in the
.Em current
working directory, not in the directory where the original file resides.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility accepts the following optional arguments:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl D , Fl -dict
Set the zstd compression dictionary to the specified file.
.It Fl m , Fl -manual
Do not do any automatic chunking (implies
.Fl s ) .
.It Fl o , Fl -output
Output to the specified file.
.It Fl s , Fl -split
Split chunks at the beginning of the specified string.
.It Fl v , Fl -verbose
Verbose operation; display some diagnostic output.
.It Fl ? , Fl -help
Display program usage information and exit.
.It Fl -usage
Display brief program usage information and exit.
.It Fl -version
Display program version information and exit.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh EXAMPLES
Create (in the current directory) a zchunk-compressed
.Pa words.zck
file from a dictionary:
.Pp
.Dl zck /usr/share/dict/words
.Pp
The same, but specify an output file:
.Pp
.Dl zck -o /tmp/words.txt.zck /usr/share/dict/words
.Pp
Generate a zchunk file with chunks separated on HTML sections:
.Pp
.Dl zck -s '<h2>' doc.html
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr unzck 1 ,
.Xr zck_delta_size 1 ,
.Xr zck_gen_zdict 1 ,
.Xr zck_read_header 1 ,
.Xr zckdl 1
.Sh AUTHOR
The
.Nm
utility was written by
.An Jonathan Dieter Aq jdieter@gmail.com .
This manual page stub was written by
.An Peter Pentchev Aq roam@ringlet.net .
